# LIXUZ content management system
# Copyright (C) Utrop A/S Portu media & Communications 2008-2011
#
# This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
# published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
# License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head1 LIXUZ URL MANUAL

Lixuz has customizable URLs, defined by the I<template_url> and I<category_url>
settings in lixuz.yml. These settings can be used to define how Lixuz generates
URLs.

All URLs are made absolute by Lixuz (ie. prefixed with /).

=head2 CATEGORY URLs

Category URLs can not be customized yet. You can only use the B<%c> placeholder, and
optionally prefix it with some pre-determined text.

=head2 ARTICLE URLs

Article URLs can be customized in any way you like. The default is: "%c/%a". Another
useful setting could be "%c/%A-%a". The bare minumum would be simply "%a".

=head2 URL PLACEHOLDERS

These are the URL placeholders that can be used in the above settings:

=over

=item B<%c>

Category name list. This generates a tree-like string, in the form: category1/subcat/subcat.
This is currently the only setting available for use in category URLs.

=item B<%a>

The article ID. B<MUST> be the last entry in any article URL.

=item B<%A>

The article title, cleaned for use in URLs.

=back
